DEFECT:  It can be simply defined as a variance between expected and actual. Defect is an error found AFTER the application goes into production. It commonly refers to several troubles with the software products, with its external behavior or with its internal features. In other words Defect is the difference between expected and actual result in the context of testing.  It is the deviation of the customer requirement.

BUG: A bug is the result of a coding error. An Error found in the development environment before the product is shipped to the customer. A programming error that causes a program to work poorly, produce incorrect results or crash. An error in software or hardware that causes a program to malfunction. Bug is terminology of Tester.

ERROR: An error is a mistake, misconception, or misunderstanding on the part of a software developer. In the category of developer we include software engineers, programmers, analysts, and testers. For example, a developer may misunderstand a de-sign notation, or a programmer might type a variable name incorrectly – leads to an Error. It is the one which is generated because of wrong login, loop or due to syntax. Error normally arises in software; it leads to change the functionality of the program.


FAILURE: A failure is the inability of a software system or component to perform its required functions within specified performance requirements. When a defect reaches the end customer it is called a Failure. During development Failures are usually observed by testers.

FAULT: An incorrect step, process or data definition in a computer program which causes the program to perform in an unintended or unanticipated manner. A fault is introduced into the software as the result of an error. It is an anomaly in the software that may cause it to behave incorrectly, and not according to its specification. It is the result of the error.
The software industry can still not agree on the definitions for all the above. In essence, if you use the term to mean one specific thing, it may not be understood to be that thing by your audience.


Defect

A common definition of a defect is a deviation from the requirements, I agree with this definition, but I like to simplify it to be a problem with development code. This emphasises what I consider the important take away, that a defect is the failure of an active story meet its requirements; either through coding error, or oversight.

    A defect is a deviation from the requirements

Bug

I like to seperate bugs from defects. I define a bug to be a problem with production code. That is for whatever reason a problem was missed through the testing process and got deployed into the live environment.

    A bug is the result of a coding error

The key difference lies in how we address and track defects vs. bugs.



Defecttest1

Defect is the difference observed between expected behaviour and the actual results which are noted post the event of testing a software, it is all about the current product does not correspond to the customer`s requirements. It differs from a bug in the fact that a defect is found out before the product goes into production.

Example of a defect:

     Customer`s requirements wants a landing page with a blue login button on the right corner of the screen.
    Actual result: The login button is on the right side.

    In other words, If a developer finds an issue and corrects it by himself in the development phase then it’s called a defect.

Error

In software engineer error can have two definitions: it can be a programming mistake generated due to incorrect loops or wrong syntax, and an error expected from customer`s requirements.error

Examples:

    Errors due to configuration such as inadequate storage area for memory. (Error generated by programing mistake).
    If the user hits login without inform the username and password the system should Display an error message saying the user is missing the mandatory fields. (Error from customer's requirements).

Bug

Once the product is completed and it is delivered to the customers and if the customer find any issues in product or software then this condition should be called as a `bug`. People widely say the bug is an informal name for the defect.bugg

    In other words, if an end user finds an issue in product then that particular issue is called as bug.
